# Real-Estate-Analytics (Lagos-and-Abuja)

Real estate is a wide spectrum covering hospitality assets, commercial developments, private, residences and landed assets, even agricultural lands (http://logbaby.com/news/real-estate-in-niger_16107.html#.X0CLqMhKjDd). The real estate sector is one of the most important sectors of the Nigerian economy, as businesses and private entities solely rely on that sector for their operation(s). This study was centred on properties listed for sale in Nigeria using Lagos and Abuja as our case study. The data used for this study was scrapped from one of the Nigerian real estate websites and focused mainly on residential buildings available for sale between 21st of July 2018 – 21st of July 2020 is 2 years using the beautifulsoup4 python library. The data was cleaned and preprocessed using Microsoft Power BI, to eliminate duplicates, transform and format the data into a proper structure for usability purposes. After preprocessing, there was a totality of 22985 well-formatted datapoints (houses), with 1588 (6.91%) listed in Abuja and 21435 (93.01%) listed in Lagos. There is a totality of 2267 marketers who had listed properties for sale on the website, with 314 (13.85%) in Abuja and 1953 (86.16%) in Lagos.
The study is aimed at investigating factors influencing the average price(s) of houses considering the number of rooms, state and the areas(location) of the properties. Here, we considered the houses with numbers of bedroom ranging from 2 – 8 bedrooms. An interactive dashboard was build using the processed data with the Power BI Desktop app and the insights drawn from the dashboard is discussed below.
i.	2 bedrooms: there is a totality of 821 houses in this category listed for sale on the website, with 95 (11.57%) available in Abuja, with an average price of N20.43M, with Gwarinpa being the area where the highest number of houses in this category was available. Similarly, in Lagos, 726 (88.43%) of the totality of the houses were listed for sale, with an average price of N34.42M, with Lekki being the area where the highest number of houses in this category was available.
ii.	3 bedrooms: there is a totality of 3341 houses in this category listed for sale on the website, with 358 (10.72%) available in Abuja, with an average price of N39.18M, with Lokogoma District being the area where the highest number of houses in this category was available. Similarly, in Lagos, 2983 (89.28%) of the totality of the houses were listed for sale, with an average price of N60.72M, with Lekki being the area where the highest number of houses in this category was available.
iii.	4 bedrooms: there is a totality of 10763 houses in this category listed for sale on the website, with 602 (5.59%) available in Abuja, with an average price of N123.35M with Gwarinpa being the area where the highest number of houses in this category was available. Similarly, in Lagos, 10161 (94.41%) of the totality of the houses were listed for sale, with an average price of N89.79M, with Lekki being the area where the highest number of houses in this category was available.
iv.	5 bedrooms: there is a totality of 7115 houses in this category listed for sale on the website, with 359 (5.05%) available in Abuja, with an average price of N162.62M with Gwarinpa and Guzape District being the areas where the highest number of houses in this category was available. Similarly, in Lagos, 7656 (94.54%) of the totality of the houses were listed for sale, with an average price of N159.09M, with Lekki being the area where the highest number of houses in this category was available.
v.	6 bedrooms: there is a totality of 666 houses in this category listed for sale on the website, with 116 (17.42%) available in Abuja, with an average price of N340.41M with Gwarinpa being the area where the highest number of houses in this category was available. Similarly, in Lagos, 550 (82.58%) of the totality of the houses were listed for sale, with an average price of N351.14M, with Lekki being the area where the highest number of houses in this category was available.
vi.	7 bedrooms: there is a totality of 194 houses in this category listed for sale on the website, with 38 (19.59%) available in Abuja, with an average price of N556.05M with Asokoro District being the area where the highest number of houses in this category was available. Similarly, in Lagos, 156 (80.41%) of the totality of the houses were listed for sale, with an average price of N380.57M, with Lekki being the area where the highest number of houses in this category was available.
vii.	8 bedrooms: there is a totality of 85 houses in this category listed for sale on the website, with 20 (42.35%) available in Abuja, with an average price of N900.75M with Maitama District being the area where the highest number of houses in this category was available. Similarly, in Lagos, 65 (57.65%) of the totality of the houses were listed for sale, with an average price of N557.60M, with Lekki being the area where the highest number of houses in this category was available.
In conclusion, majority of the properties listed for sale are 4-bedroom houses, there are more properties available for sale in Lagos state than Abuja, however, houses in Abuja are more expensive than houses in Lagos state. Most of the properties listed for sale in Abuja are located in Gwarinpa, while in Lagos, most of the properties were located in Lekki. For further insights, the dashboard can be accessed via: https://app.powerbi.com/view?r=eyJrIjoiNjg0ODAxNDktMmQ0NS00NzExLTkxMzAtMDJlYTA2ZDk3MDk2IiwidCI6IjYxMjFjMDZiLWI1ZGItNDc4Ny04YmU3LTAzZDljMjc0Mjk5NSJ9&embedImagePlaceholder=true&pageName=ReportSection
